[Music]
so check this out in the 200,000 years
modern humans have been on this planet
we've pretty much gotten the hang of how
things work on earth for example we know
that Islands don't just pop up overnight
and they definitely don't move
so when they do we're left scrambling
for answers here are the most bizarre
moving islands that had researchers
stumped but first don't forget to hit
that subscribe button and ring the
notification bell to join us on the
bright side all right imagine you're a
pilot flying over the Pacific this isn't
your first rodeo
so you know the layout of the land water
I guess plus you've got your navigation
equipment to help you out when in doubt
when you look down you suddenly see an
island where there should be open ocean
and this thing is big at least 200 miles
long there's no mistaking it it's a
full-on island about the size of Jamaica
and it's magically appeared out of the
blue no this isn't an excerpt from some
fantastical movie or show this is what
an actual pilot witnessed on August 1st
2012 about 500 miles off the coast of
New Zealand when the pilot informed the
authorities about his finding
researchers decided to investigate
obviously they first turned to scans
taken by NASA's Terra satellite what
they discovered was that this thing not
only popped up out of nowhere but it was
also heading landward now it was time to
get a better look
scientists needed to study this thing up
close when they approached the
mysterious island they were amazed to
find it wasn't a solid piece of land at
all it was a giant mass of rocks
floating on the surface of the water and
it really was humongous about 300 miles
long and 30 miles wide a lot bigger than
Jamaica in fact and this layer of
floating rocks was about two feet thick
when the researchers shined spotlights
on the unusual mass it lit up a bright
white color just like the edge of an ice
shelf floating glowing rocks you say
well yes I did are you sure we're not in
some fantasy universe where the laws of
physics don't apply well once the
scientists got some samples of the stuff
the mystery was finally solved these
bizarre floating stones were actually
pumice or light stones of volcanic
origin these things had floated up to
the surface after the eruption of an
underwater volcano
you see when hot lava mixes with cold
ocean water gas bubbles get trapped
inside making the rock buoyant and all
these millions of separate pumice stones
had risen up and formed the unusual
country sized raft these sorts of pumice
gatherings can stay afloat for an
extremely long time this long-term
buoyancy is thanks to the itsy-bitsy
pores in the rock they're not like a
sponge that absorbs water but are so
small that water simply presses on them
and keeps the gas trapped inside
a pumice rocks sinks only if the trapped
gas diffuses out with some more research
the scientists figured out that this
mass would sink a bit at night and rise
back to the surface in the day again
this sort of bobbing has to do with that
trapped gas boy I know the feeling it
cools down at night and contracts
becoming less buoyant but in the
sunlight it expands again sending the
rocks back up to the surface
surprisingly there are numerous pumice
rafts in the world's oceans according to
scientists they even played an important
role in the process of evolution by
drifting over large expanses of water
they would transport microbes plants and
even animals to faraway destinations
nowadays they also make perfect homes
for marine creatures in fact it's quite
common to see around 80 different
species occupying a pumice raft and well
going with the flow there have been
several cases when over 200
representatives of one species would
travel on a single raft and some pumice
gatherings were colonized by more than
10 billion barnacles some of these
organisms would set up shop permanently
in the raft well others were just
hitchhiking if a pumice rock lands on a
beach a stray crab may even hitch a ride
pumice islands are a pretty fascinating
phenomenon but just wait until you hear
about the I this island is located not
far from the northeastern corner of
Argentina in the piranha Delta this
thing is full of mystery it's a
perfectly circular island and not only
does it float it also rotates dubbed the
I this place was discovered in 2016 by
Sergio noise alarm an Argentinean
filmmaker who was looking for a location
to shoot a movie about paranormal
phenomenon in the area good timing huh
you can imagine how impressed he was to
spot a circular island floating and
spinning in an open body of water about
400 feet in diameter satellite scans do
show the island shifts to a new position
pretty much every day and that has been
doing so for about 20 years but the
shape is just too perfect to have been
formed by nature so is it some sort of
paranormal activity was it aliens that
carved out the island for their own
purpose like some people believe well
there are more scientific explanations
for this phenomenon the fact that the
circular mass of land floats probably
comes down to trap methane bubbles in
the water
as for the spinning it's likely due to a
current that flows along side of the
island with years and years of constant
spinning that's how it got it's
perfectly circular form it is a very
rare occurrence simply because the
conditions needed to create such a
structure are so particular sure the
phenomenon in Argentina is uncommon but
it isn't unique a vivid example is the
Luo Apollo River which is located on the
border between Zambia and the Democratic
Republic of the Congo this River is home
to several floating and rotating Islands
they don't have such a perfect shape as
the eye does but they do indeed move and
turn on an axis some of them even share
the same pool but not all floating
islands were created by Nature for
example there are very famous man-made
islands that constantly move around Lake
Titicaca located between Bolivia and
Peru these islands are homes for there
arose a local tribe that weaves their
floating villages from reeds the tribe
originally came up with the idea of
living on the lake to avoid conflicts
with the locals but even nowadays when
there's no more threat from anything or
anybody who roasts still live on their
floating islands and earn money by
fishing and entertaining tourists
there's one more man-made island that's
definitely worth mentioning his creation
however is much more sinister it's
connected with the biggest problem we
face today pollution the thing is that
over the years ocean currents have
brought together tons of garbage dumped
into the Pacific Ocean experts aren't
quite sure the exact size of this
garbage island but some estimates put it
at about 600,000 square miles for your
information that's almost as big as
Alaska there's no mystery in the
appearance of this island but the
question remains are we gonna do
anything about it and how can we prevent
these humongous garbage patches from
appearing in the future well smart minds
are working on it so look for an update
in a future bright side so which of
these bizarre islands impressed you the
most let us know in the comments below
remember to give this video a like share
it with your friends and click subscribe
to stay on the bright side of life
you